# TextAdventure
This is the second attempt at a _terminal/text-based adventure game_.  
The project uses the Ruby Curses library.  
Proper documentation coming when there is something to show.
  
## Installation
Download repository:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/Noah2610/TextAdventure_v2.git
```
### Package Dependencies
You need to have _Ruby_ and _ruby-bundler_ installed.
### Gem Dependencies
Execute the following in the root directory of the project:
```
$ bundle install
```
This will install the required Ruby gems.  
Starting the game the first time will download my Ruby Command-Line [Argument Parser](https://github.com/Noah2610/ArgumentParser) Gem  
into `./lib/argument_parser.rb`.
  
## Start Game
Start the game by executing:
```
$ ./TA.rb
```

## Game Information
### Settings
There is a configuration file at `./src/settings.yml` which contains some general settings for the game.  
It mainly defines some minor tweaks used throughout the game. It has a bunch of comments decribing  
each value so you can check it out there if you are curious.
### Game Modes
There are two Game Modes in the game currently,  
which are states the Player is in that switch during gameplay:
* __Normal Mode__:  
This is the main mode.  
The Player uses __Verbs__ to interact with their Items and the environment.
* __Conversation Mode__:  
The Player enters this mode when they start a conversation with a Person.  
In this mode, you interact with the person you are talking to with __Terms__.

### Window Layout
There are 5 main Curses Windows used.
#### INPUT
This is the window the user types their commands in.  
It starts with a prompt which will be different according to the current game mode.
```
Normal Mode       = "> "
Conversation Mode = ">> "
```
These prompts can be set in `settings.yml`.
#### USER OUTPUT
This window echos any text the user submits through the Input window.  
Just to give the User some feedback that their command has been recognized, even if nothing happens (no Verbs).
#### PRIMARY OUTPUT
All text output generated in normal mode will be printed here.
#### CONVERSATION OUTPUT
All text output generated by a Person in conversation mode will be printed here.
#### STATUS
The Status window contains information such as the current Room and all Items in the Player's Inventory.

## Development Information
I want to list some information that is relevant to the framework here.
### Nomenclature
Here I list the nomenclature of classes, modules, etc. used in the game.
#### INPUT LINE
```ruby
module Input
  class Line
  end
end
```
When the user submits input, an Input Line is created from the string.  
This Line processes the user's input and splits the words into `Input::Words`.  
#### INPUT WORD
```ruby
module Input::Words
  class Word
  end
  class Verb      < Word  end
  class Term      < Word  end
  class Item      < Word  end
  class Component < Word  end
  class Person    < Word  end
  class Room      < Word  end
end
```
Before an Input Word is created, it is decided what type of Word it will be (types being Verb, Term, or Instance types)  
according to the the actual word string the user has typed.
#### VERBS
```ruby
module Verbs
  class Verb
  end
  class Look < Verb
  end
end
```
Verbs are the main keywords with which you will interact with the game.  
Without a Verb in an Input Line, the input will have no meaning and nothing to do.  
The Verb handles the user's input, after the words have been matched to their appropriate types.  
The method `action` is called from the used Verb, which is passed all mentioned Instances. For example:  
```
> look at cornfield
```
`look` is the Verb and `cornfield` is a Room.  
In this example the user wants to get the description of the Room `cornfield`.  
  
Verbs have YAML configuration files in `./src/Data/Verbs` under their respective names.  
These configuration files contain the `keywords` used to address and use the Verb in-game  
and `text` to be printed to the screen.  
`keywords` can be normal text or regular expressions.
#### TERMS
```ruby
module Terms
  class Term
  end
  class Take < Term
  end
end
```
Terms are used in conversations. They are keywords that can trigger specific code.  
They also have configuration files in `./src/Data/Terms`.  
Usually they work together with Instances. For example:
```
>> take this apple
```
Where `take` it the Term and `apple` is an Item that will be passed to `take`'s `action` method.  
In this example the user tries to give the apple to the person they are in a conversation with.
#### INSTANCES
```ruby
module Instances
  class Instance
  end
end
```
The Instance class is an abstract class which provides many methods for the following Instances.
##### ITEMS
```ruby
module Instances::Items
  class Item < Instances::Instance
  end
  class Apple < Item
  end
end
```
Items are, as you would think, takeable and useable objects.  
They can be placed in Rooms or Inventories which can be attached to any Instance.  
The Player also has an Inventory of course, although they are not an Instance.  
##### COMPONENTS
```ruby
module Instances::Components
  class Component < Instances::Instance
  end
  class GloveCompartment < Component
  end
end
```
Components are Instances that can be placed inside Rooms.  
They will usually have an Inventory.
##### PERSONS
```ruby
module Instances::Persons
  class Person < Instances::Instance
  end
  class Alex < Person
  end
end
```
A Person can be placed inside a Room; they can be talked to.
##### ROOMS
```ruby
module Instances::Rooms
  class Room < Instances::Instance
  end
  class Cornfield < Room
  end
end
```
The Player is always in a Room. Persons are also placed in a Room.
  
All Instances can include an Inventory, so all Instances have the ability to carry Items.  
They also have YAML configuration files located in `./src/Data` under their respective directories.  
These config files contain text such as Instance name(s) and description(s)  
and other text that might be used in their associated classes in the code.  
`keywords` are also defined in the configs.

